[ Phil Panting ]
Oh, God.
[ Claire ]
It’s a little early,
isn’t it?
- Go back to sleep. I don’t
need you awake for this.
- Honey, it’s Christmas Eve.
Are you gonna spend all day
on that thing?
I made a promise. Yes!
Last Christmas,
Phil got an
elliptical machine...
and vowed to walk
the equivalent of our house
to Canada in one year.
This body doesn’t
just happen, ladies.
If he didn’t make it,
no machine in the bedroom.
Except for this machine
in the bedroom, ladies.
Who are these ladies?
Oh, Phil, give it up.
Oh, you would love that,
wouldn’t you?
Just when I’m so close
to the Canadian border,
I can smell the bacon
and the reasonably priced
medications.
Mom, this came
for you from Nana.
I don’t know why she bothers
to wrap it every year.
It’s always the same thing–
slippers.
You never know.
She might surprise you
this year.
Would you care to take
a visit to the Museum
of Maternal Indifference?
- [ Thud ]
- [ Alex ]
Watch it!
Oh. Careful!
You guys are really
moving her downstairs right now?
Aren’t you gonna
be late for work?
They’re not gonna fire an elf
on Christmas Eve.
Ugh. I thought
this would be lighter
without my shoes on it.
You know, once you set up
your room, you could
put books on this.
Books... on a shoe shelf.
Right.
Not gonna jump on that?
I’m just too happy.
After today, there’ll be no more
clothes thrown everywhere,
no more hour-long phone calls
where all she says is "No way."
I think it’s a little sad that
you guys are doing this today.
I remember when you used
to get into the same bed
on Christmas Eve...
and talk about all the presents
you were gonna get.
It’s a perfect day for it.
When I wake up in my own room
tomorrow,
I’m going to be giving thanks
for my independence.
And isn’t that what Christmas
is all about?
Seriously? Nothing?
♪ Hey, hey ♪
♪ Hey ♪♪
This is your
great-grandmother’s recipe.
If she could see you now–
[ Chuckles ]
she would die again
because you’re doing it wrong!
[ Gloria ]
My mother has been here
all week.
I love her very much,
but you know what they say–
Houseguests start to stink after
three days, like dead bodies.
What the hell is that?
A fiber-optic tree.
It’s way better
for the environment
than a real one.
Not if the environment
is my living room.
Look, I admit, it takes
some getting used to,
but so did Greek yogurt.
Now I can’t even remember
how the old stuff tastes.
Why do we keep changing things
that don’t need changing?
Christmas is real trees
and eggnog.
Perry Como and Bing
on the hi-fi.
Now you’re just
making up words.
I’m drawing a line in the sand.
We’re gonna get a real tree
and cut it down
like I did when I was a kid.
Follow me.
Hi, Dad.
Can’t talk.
Saving Christmas.
Oh.
Ay. Thank you again for coming.
No problem.
I love babysitting.
Good.
We’re going to run
some quick errands.
Wait. If you’re taking Joe–
Hola, Claire.
Around 4:00,
she gets fussy
for her bottle.
Um–
Lily, do you know
why I’m able to relax
and read this paper today?
Because you don’t have a job?
[ Stammers ] I am starting
a new job in exactly–
No. We’re not
doing this again.
It’s because I planned ahead.
I finished
my Christmas shopping
weeks ago.
It’s important to keep busy.
I-It is perfectly normal
to take some downti–
No. No.
Okay. I printed out
the directions
to Pepper’s party.
Oh. We’re calling it
"The 12 Gays
of Christmas" now.
Just be thankful
we talked him out
of "Feliz Navidude."
Okay, honey,
finish your breakfast so
we can go help our fellow man.
One hour at this
charity event, max.
I can’t eat.
I’m too excited
to get my Puppy Pound.
- I’m– I’m sorry. Your what?
- Puppy Pounds have six puppies
with online profiles.
Ask your parents
before using the Internet.
Honey, you never mentioned
a Puppy Pound.
It’s not on your list.
Yes, it is.
"Puppy Pound."
Oh, no!
She put a "P" backwards.
And, honey,
there’s a "U" in "pound."
This says "guppy pond."
Guppy pond.
- [ Giggles ]
- What is a guppy pond?
It’s only the–
the coolest gift ever.
I want a Puppy Pound.
Um, honey, it’s–
[ Groans ]
Okay.
[ Sighs ]
I am not pointing fingers,
but our daughter...
had exactly one thing
on her list,
and someone didn’t get it,
so someone needs
to go to the mall.
You’re pointing fingers.
No.
It’s still a one.
It just fell asleep on the job.
Ellipticaler’s log, 12/24.
Ten miles from Canadian border.
Spirits: high.
Stamina: strong.
Must get another
application of thigh lube.
Oh, good. Luke.
Dad, I was with you
on the tightrope.
I was your wingman
in the wing-eating competition.
I’m not feeling this one.
You’re missing Christmas Eve.
There’s something
more important
than Christmas, Son– pride.
If I don’t make it to Canada,
your mom wins,
and this baby ends up
in the garage first thing
in the morning.
Our garage?
I’m in charge of the recycling.
I’m supposed to bring it
from the garage to the curb
by 6:00 a.m. Thursday morning.
I may have missed a few weeks.
[ Garbage Truck
Mechanism Whirring ]
[ Beeping ]
Shoot!
Maybe more than a few weeks.
After a while,
the pile just got so big,
I couldn’t bring it out
the night before
or people would ask questions.
I don’t need people
asking questions.
Then you’re right.
You’ve got to finish.
You’ll never use
this thing in the garage.
It’s too drafty.
That’s why I’m going
to Canada, buddy–
to avoid the draft.
[ Jay ]
No.
Eh.
Bang.
I know we’ve been hiking
for an hour,
but worth it when you look
at this beauty, huh?
That’s why you don’t cut down
the first tree you see.
This is literally
the first tree we saw.
There’s our car.
No, we started that way.
So, you’re arguing
that we walked entirely
around the earth?
Give me the ax.
[ Straining ]
[ Chuckles ]
Don’t give me that look.
Trees are like women.
The best ones make you work
a little bit harder.
[ Grunts ]
She’s just not that into you.
I know!
Sorry it took so long.
Oh, it’s fine.
Claire and I were having
a nice time catching up.
Ven con tu abuela.
I am really sorry
that I am late.
No, you’re not.
No, I’m not.
Mm-hmm. It’s fine.
Just hope I didn’t
talk Pilar’s ear off.
No! I love hearing
about your family
and your big new job.
[ Bell Dings ]
Oh, well, it-it’s
not such a big job.
I mean, I’m really
just working for my dad.
But you’re working hard.
I’m proud of you.
How do they look?
Ooh! Perfect.
Yes.
You are a wonderful student.
Thank you.
My grandmother taught my mother.
My mother taught me,
and now I teach Claire.
[ Claire Chuckles ]
And don’t be so modest.
I respect a woman
who can raise a family
and have a full-time job.
Can you believe that
on Fridays they don’t
even have to dress up?
Taste. Taste. Taste.
Oh.
Sometimes
they even wear sweatpants.
Would you like
to lick the batter?
Yes! Oh, yes!
You like that?
- Me too. There’s one for–
- No, no, no!
Helpers only.
Uh-huh.
I don’t make the rules.
Oh, Lily,
what a beautiful ornament.
That’s gonna make
a little kid very happy.
Wait. I don’t get to keep this?
Why am I killing myself?
Okay, kids!
We’ve got a visitor
from the North Pole,
and he brought presents.
[ Cell Phone Rings ]
Hey! Hey, how’s it going?
There are no Puppy Pounds
anywhere.
It’s like trying to
find a Cabbage Patch Kid
on Christmas Eve, 1983.
Still hurts, huh?
I had her bed all made.
Okay. Well, Lily
is gonna be devastated.
Call around.
Get us on some lists.
You have to do something.
I’ll figure it out.
How’s the fund-raiser?
Oh, well,
I’m managing. You know.
Oh, bring the checkbook.
You can always tell when they’re
gearing up for the big ask–
[ Mouths Words ]
They fill you full of freebies.
Oh, hey, I gotta go.
Gotta help somebody.
Hi. Classic.
Flawlessly executed.
If I had one–
Just trying to bring
a smile to you folks.
You’re gonna get through this.
Get through what?
Don’t be embarrassed.
Everyone here
is in the same boat.
[ Chuckles ]
We are?
Best thing about
the hot chocolate–
They let us keep the mug.
[ Chuckles ]
I thought it was
a charity event for the needy.
Turns out,
it was a charity event
for the needy.
Ho, ho, ho, ho.
Look! Santa gave me
a Puppy Pound.
What? No.
I’m finally happy.
I’d like a picture
for the newsletter.
You can show your mommy.
I don’t have a mommy.
- [ Sighs ]
- This is why I do this.
[ Beeps ]
[ Exhales ]
That cramp could
be a heart attack.
Here’s some advice
I’ve been holding back on.
Always shave
with the grain.
- No reputable talent agent will
ever ask for money up front.
- Dad, you’re fine.
- I really want to quit, Luke.
- No, you’re gonna make it.
He was never gonna make it.
I just needed to buy some time.
That’s a lot of product
you’re moving.
Just bring it
to a recycling place.
Not until I get paid.
Just so you know,
this is six weeks’ allowance.
You have
the coolest parents ever.
I want to know when
you’re about to leave,
so give me a honk.
Honk!
From your car.
The best business card
is a firm handshake.
The best pickup line
is a tight pair
of Dockers.
The best Dockers–
Dad, save your breath.
- You’re in the last five miles.
- I’m never gonna make it!
Of course you are.
[ Car Horn Honks ]
Then again,
do what you want.
I got stuff to do.
I’m gonna quit.
Cool.
What’s one more failure?
[ Groans, Panting ]
You ever wonder why
we take such a crazy route
to school?
[ Panting ]
So I don’t have to drive
by certain places–
the flute teacher’s house
I went to once,
the French cooking academy
I quit after learning only
two of the five mother sauces,
the hot yoga studio
I left after happy baby.
I guess there’s no avoiding
this big failure sitting
in my garage.
Get up.
I appreciate it,
buddy, but–
Get up.
I don’t know
anything about flutes...
or cooking
or happy babies,
but I’m damn sure
getting my dad to Canada.
Now mount that beast.
Thank you, Son.
You can thank me after
you cross the finish line
and the celebration begins.
Just picture that.
[ Fireworks Whistling,
Exploding ]
I’m picturing it.
I’m really picturing it!
[ Laughing ]
Thanks, Santa.
Yeah. You got it.
Don’t forget a candy cane
from Mrs. Claus.
[ Groans ]
I gotta take a break.
[ All Exclaiming ]
[ Girl ]
What?
Um– It’s okay.
Does anybody want to
take a picture with me?
- I’ll do it.
- Oh, maybe just the kids.
What was that?
What was what?
Santa doesn’t take breaks.
He visits the North Pole.
And why do you
leave your things all over?
Who do you think
cleans this place up?
Oh, you are such a nag!
[ Scoffs ]
Can’t we at least act
like a happy couple
during the holidays?
For the children!
[ Sighs ]
Another hot chocolate?
[ Alex ]
How many more of those
are you going to drink?
[ Santa ]
At least it’s warm,
unlike you!
[ Alex Groans ]
He travels a lot.
She’s put on cookie weight.
It’s hard.
Yes, you can put me on
the last-minute shoppers
waiting list.
Unbelievable.
Oh! Well, there he is.
Hey, Jotham.
Hey.
Oh, looks like someone
did a little last-minute
Christmas shopping.
That Daniel’s a lucky guy.
Yes, he is,
but these are
for Pepper’s party.
His invitation said
"No gifts, please."
Say that again... as Pepper.
No gifts?
[ Scoffs ]
Please.
5:00, Christmas Eve,
and I have to find
a dozen perfect presents...
for the world’s
snarkiest, cattiest men–
my dear, dear friends.
[ Grunting ]
Pull! Pull! Pull!
- Yeah. Hey, take a break.
- This is taking forever.
It’s supposed to.
Took my dad and I
all day to get a tree.
And when he finally
brought her down,
he used to celebrate
with a cigar.
I was just a kid,
so I’d have a cigarette.
All right,
grab the other end.
[ Grunts ]
There we go.
Now we got a groove.
Yeah.
There we–
[ Straining ]
- It won’t budge!
- What the hell
is this wood made of?
They ought to make saws
out of it.
Let’s face it.
The tree’s beaten us.
Hey, we’re Pritchetts.
We don’t quit.
Besides, all my tools
are stuck in it.
[ Exhales ]
I got it.
It’s simple physics.
A little pressure,
the thing will snap where
we put the blade in. Done.
Just hit the gas.
It’s working.
That’s why they call it
Yankee ingen–
Get down!
It’s bald on one side now.
It’ll be fine.
We’ll just comb over
some branches.
Oh, Claire, I thought
that you had left.
She was going to,
but I wanted to show her
how much better she looks...
without this hair
blocking her pretty face.
Mmm.
She does have
beautiful hair though.
Ay, sí. Porque escogió
un color bonito en el salón
de belleza será. ¿Por qué más?
What did she say?
That you picked
a good color.
At least, I think
that’s what she said
with that American accent.
You don’t have
to entertain her.
After all,
she’s my mother.
Ah, this used to be
Glorita’s favorite.
She used to do headstands
to get extra cookies–
at least, she’d try.
Yeah, but it’s not easy.
I mean, it’s hard enough
to keep all this right-side up.
Imagine when I had to
put it all right-side down.
It was–
Oh, my gosh.
I can’t believe
I can still do it.
- Look at that. Oh, wow.
- Look at Claire, Gloria!
[ Laughs ]
Very good.
Two cookies for you.
Thank you!
Yeah,
but she needs a pedicure.
Look at that.
Oh! You knocked me down.
I did not.
Yes, you did too!
Girls!
[ Arguing ]
Girls! Girls! Girls!
No need to fight.
I don’t have a favorite.
Why the hell not?
I am very disappointed
in both of you.
Family members
should treat each other
with love and respect.
Except that Claire is
not part of our family.
Cierra la boca.
No. No, no.
She’s right,
unless that’s
what you just said.
I can’t tell, ’cause
I-I only took French,
and je parle un peu.
Oh, you have
a beautiful accent.
Really? Do you think so?
¡Ay, ya, por favor!
I’m sorry. I–
I– I’m jealous.
Ay, Claire.
But you’re beautiful too,
in your own way.
No. I’m not jealous of you.
I’m jealous of how
your mother comes all the way
to see you from Colombia,
when my own mother
won’t even get on a bus...
from the almond co-op
she lives on three hours away.
She sends presents, no?
Yeah.
The same thing every year.
It’s always slippers.
I am sorry.
Thank you.
But I shouldn’t
take it out on you
just ’cause I have a lousy mom.
Don’t disrespect
your mother!
Is she always like this?
Yes.
Did you ever think
maybe there’s a reason
she sends you that gift?
Yeah, ’cause she found something
when I was eight years old
that I actually liked,
and she hasn’t
thought about it since.
Well, maybe she thinks
about it a lot.
Maybe she remembers a time
when she made you happy,
and she wants
to go back there.
[ Voice Breaking ]
Well, now I feel terrible.
The only thing I sent her
was an e-card.
[ Sighs ]
We don’t like to admit it,
but mothers never get over
the day their daughters
leave them.
We never stop
needing our little girls.
I will never stop
needing you, Mama.
[ Speaking Spanish ]
Mmm.
Excuse me. Excuse me.
Excuse me.
Whoa, whoa,
whoa, whoa, whoa.
Excuse me, elf.
It’s been 45 minutes.
Where’s Santa?
I don’t know.
Maybe he’s a little busy
making presents for every child
in the world.
One second.
[ Crowd Shouting ]
Hey. You’re just gonna leave?
Where is he?
He said he was going out
for a pack of candy canes.
You mean like those?
[ Children ]
Santa! Santa! Santa! Santa!
Okay. Wake up!
He is not coming back.
Okay.
We need to change
into our regular clothes
and sneak out.
[ Groans ]
Who am I kidding?
My eyes are unforgettable.
I couldn’t even
hold on to a fake husband.
I always thought you were
the tough one to live with,
but maybe I am.
Okay, they’ve breached
the jelly bean moat.
- This is a problem.
- It’s a big problem.
All this time
I’ve been waiting for a guy
to see the true me,
and now I’m scared
he will.
- My God, they’ve got Blitzen!
- What’s going
to happen to me?
Am I just going
to nitpick everyone
until they leave me?
- Hey, Mom found somebody.
- That’s true.
Okay, listen.
We really need
to get out of here.
But I just want to let you know
that you weren’t all bad
to live with. I thought–
[ Screams ]
Oh, my God!
Oh, my God! Oh, my God!
[ Screaming ]
Where’s Santa?
[ Both Screaming ]
[ Groans ]
Only a hundred more yards.
[ Canadian Accent ]
You’re just about there.
Can you see it?
It’s so beautiful.
It’s so green.
And, wow,
those are high up there.
The mountains?
No, my shorts again.
Would you mind giving them
one last tug?
You’re crossing the border.
I know,
and I feel bad asking,
but I’m tasting cotton.
No. You did it.
You’re in Canada.
Wait. What?
I did it? I did it!
[ Laughs ]
I did it. I did it!
[ Both Laughing ]
Let’s go tell Mom.
Wait. How did I used to walk?
All right.
Come on, sweetie.
Let’s go.
[ Sighs ]
Uh, we’re serving
Christmas dinner.
Uh, no. That’s fine.
We have to actually
get going, so–
But I haven’t eaten today.
Oh, you poor thing.
No, she’s fine. She’s fine.
[ Car Horn Honks ]
There he is.
Honey, where did you
get this coat?
Sorry, kids.
It looks like we’ve run out
of coats and toys.
- [ Children Groaning ]
- That’s okay, Mom.
At least I got
to see presents.
Okay. Come on. Let’s go.
Hey!
How are my do-gooders?
- Did you have fun?
- Yep. Talk about it in the car.
Oh, my gosh.
[ All Exclaiming ]
Wow!
What are these?
Yeah, I went
a little crazy, huh?
No. No, no.
It’s a Christmas miracle.
Kids! Kids!
Who wants presents?
Cam, what are you doing?
No, trust me.
Lily has enough.
Cam. Cam.
Everybody,
merry Christmas!
Ho, ho, ho!
Hey, Cam.
Not that one.
¡Feliz Navidad!
Okay. Those aren’t for Lily.
- "His-and-his shower clogs"?
- They’re for Pepper’s party.
He said, "No gifts, please."
Imagine how Pepper
would say that.
- [ Groans ]
- What’s a Himalayan salt plate?
You can season your food
while you serve it.
- Yeah.
- "Body fat scale"?
I wish I would’ve had one
of those when I was your age.
You’re welcome.
Who’s Robert Mapplethorpe?
Actually, I’m gonna need
that one back. Sorry.
[ Chuckles ]
That’s okay.
All I really wanted this year
was a Puppy Pound.
Here.
You can have mine.
It’s really fun.
Oh, my gosh.
That’s the sweetest thing
I’ve ever seen.
[ Cell Phone Chimes ]
Lily, honey, that was so nice.
It’s okay.
I’ll get one tomorrow.
Um, well, you know what?
About that–
Cam? Cam?
Uh, that was
the T-O-Y S-T-O-R-E.
What?
Someone returned
their Puppy Pound.
We can’t get
over there in time
before the store closes.
Wait, you know
who lives right over there?
[ Groaning ]
Oh, no. No!
[ Grunting ]
[ Grunting Continues ]
[ Screaming, Shouting ]
- Almost there.
- [ Loud Buzz ]
No.
No! Why?
[ Sobbing ]
Why?
In hindsight,
the cigar was a mistake.
[ Sighs ]
So what do we do now?
We go home.
I thought Pritchetts
never give up.
They know when to give up,
which is its own kind
of victory.
Unless–
What?
No.
[ Chuckles ]
It’s crazy.
Unless–
Are you really gonna
make me ask you again?
We somehow
apply pressure to the axhead
already in the tree.
I bet we can use
the jack from the car.
Of course.
The upward motion
will split the trunk.
Yeah.
We can always tell people
that’s how we did it.
That is how we did it.
[ Luke ]
People love getting new things,
but the best stuff
has a story behind it.
Damn fine tree.
Except the saw’s
still stuck in the trunk.
Yeah, you’re gonna want
to keep your brother
away from that, huh?
A lot of times,
it’s only after
we get rid of something–
Room for me?
that we realize
how much we miss it.
Aw.
[ Claire ]
That is cute!
Nice.
Good job, Luke.
Yea! A Puppy Pound!
And things
that seem worthless...
suddenly turn out
to be super valuable–
Okay, everybody,
picture in front of the tree.
Timer’s set. Ready?
[ Shutter Clicks ]
[ All Talking ]
No, no. Another one.
[ Shutter Clicks ]
Oh, no!
What? No!
maybe even precious.
Which is why I thought
getting rid of this stuff
would be a huge mistake.
Ah.
Nice try.
You still owe us
six weeks’ allowance.
And the fireworks.
How could you screw this up?
What?
[ Scandinavian Accent ]
I’ll see you in Vancouver, eh?
[ Normal Voice ] No.
Luke, do the accent again?
[ Claire ]
Oh, are you on that machine?
Yes, Juliana,
but unlike your husband,
I’ll be finished
before you know it.
You know what?
It’s actually easier this way!
Hmm.
Wonder if you can
patent a movement?
Call it Philiptical–
[ Groans ]
[ Thuds ]
[ Alex ] Dad, trick-or-treaters.
We’re out of candy!
Who is this Dad?
I’m Gandalf!
Huzzah!